Apply the 3x amplification-limit to migration too (#4264)
quicwg/base-drafts: draft-ietf-quic-transport.md

on its own.

> The primary defense against amplification attack is verifying that an endpoint

Reviewer: This should be "the peer" instead of "an endpoint", since the context here is that this endpoint is doing the validation.

is able to receive packets at the transport address that it claims.  An endpoint
that responds to packets received from a new address limits the data it sends
to that address until the peer address is validated.  Prior to validating the
peer's address, endpoints MUST NOT send data toward that address that exceeds

> three times the amount of data received from that address.  This three times

Reviewer 2: Or datagrams, perhaps?

> that responds to packets received from a new address limits the data it sends
> to that address until the peer address is validated.  Prior to validating the
> peer's address, endpoints MUST NOT send data toward that address that exceeds
> three times the amount of data received from that address.  This three times

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
that responds to packets received from a new address limits the data it sends
to that address until the peer address is validated.  Prior to validating the
peer's address, endpoints MUST NOT send datagrams toward that address
whose total payload exceeds three times the amount of data received from
that address.  This
```
Saying "three times" again both sounds strange and doesn't seem to add anything.

> is able to receive packets at the transport address that it claims.  An endpoint
> that responds to packets received from a new address limits the data it sends to
> that address until the peer address is validated.  Prior to validating the
> peer's address, endpoints MUST NOT send datagrams toward that address whose
> total payload exceeds three times the amount of data received from that address.
> This limit on the size of responses is known as the anti-amplification limit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is able to receive packets at the transport address that it claims. Therefore,
on receiving packets from a new address that is not yet validated, an endpoint
MUST limit the amount of data it sends to the unvalidated address to three times
the amount of data received from that address. This limit on the size of
responses is known as the anti-amplification limit.
```

use the server to send more data toward the victim than it would be able to send
on its own.

> The primary defense against amplification attack is verifying that a peer is

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The primary defense against amplification attacks is verifying that a peer is
```

to verify that the client IP address has not changed from when the token was
issued. Servers can use tokens from NEW_TOKEN in deciding not to send a Retry
packet, even if the client address has changed. If the client IP address has

> changed, the server MUST adhere to the anti-amplification limits; see

Reviewer 4: Now that we've given it a real name
```suggestion
changed, the server MUST adhere to the anti-amplification limit; see
```

it can associate the peer's response with the corresponding PATH_CHALLENGE.

An endpoint MUST expand datagrams that contain a PATH_CHALLENGE frame to at
least the smallest allowed maximum datagram size of 1200 bytes, unless the
anti-amplification limit for the path does not permit sending a datagram of

> this size.  Sending UDP datagrams of this size ensures that the network path

Reviewer 4: It also seems like it's possible that we wouldn't be able to send a PATH_CHALLENGE at all, what should an endpoint do then?

Reviewer 5: I'm not sure if there'd be such a case.

* Minimum size of a valid short header packet is 19 bytes (i.e. first-byte (1) + 0-byte CID (0) + 1-byte PN (1) + 1-byte payload (1) + AEAD tag (16)).
* Maximum size of a short header packet that contains PATH_CHALLENGE only is 50 bytes (i.e. first byte (1) + 20-byte CID (20) + 4-byte PN (4) + PATH_CHALLENGE (9) + AEAD tag (16)).

The latter (50) is less than the former multiplied by three (19*3=57).

from the endpoint to the peer can be used for QUIC; see {{datagram-size}}.

If an endpoint is unable to expand the datagram payload to 1200 bytes, no
padding is necessary.  However, this means that the path MTU will not be

> validated.  The endpoint MUST perform a second path validation with a datagram

Reviewer 4: Just a wording nit: From context it's clear that this is a qualified MUST, but perhaps we could include that in the sentence itself? Even something like "In this situation, the endpoint MUST" such that if someone were to quote this sentence it would be clear that there's more context that applies.

of at least 1200 bytes once a PATH_RESPONSE is successfully received or when
enough bytes have been received on the path that sending the larger datagram

> will not result in exceeding the anti-amplification limit.

Reviewer 5: I think we can change this MUST to a "can", pointing out that the most likely reason for sending a small-sized PATH_CHALLENGE is due to receiving a non-probing packet on an unvalidated path due to unintentional migration. And that in such case, it is unlikely to have an alternative path.

I think that's what @ianswett pointed out.

Reviewer 5: I might argue that the principle that we have is to reject paths with MTUs below 1200. But in case of NAT rebinding, the path has already switched. It's too late to reject that path.

But to be practical, I think we need to consider how endpoints should behave when MTU of the new path is below 1200. The two options at stake are:
* At the moment, the PR states that path validation MUST fail. But because the server might send smaller packets using the reminder of the 3x window, communication between the endpoints might slowly proceed.
* If we omit MTU discovery, communication between the endpoints is likely to slowly proceed in similar way.

IMO, both options are equally dissatisfatory, and based on that view, my preference goes to the simpler solution (of omitting MTU discovery).

By mandating MTU discovery, do we have a better way of bailing out?

Author: When we discussed this as part of the handshake, the principle we applied was a preference for failing fast.  That is, the sooner the problem is identified and the connection abandoned, the less likely it is that the connection persists in a half-broken state for an extended period.

Isn't a mandate for MTU probing a clear application of that principle?

(Nothing stops someone from trying to muddle on, but you need to be smart and effectively do a sub-1200 PMTUD of sorts to find your limits; and you have to rely on the peer doing the same.  That seems fragile.)

Reviewer 5: Thank you for walking me through. So you are saying that an endpoint MUST always validate path MTU when responding to an unintentional migration (e.g., NAT rebinding), using a timer as recommended in [section 8.2.4](https://quicwg.org/base-drafts/draft-ietf-quic-transport.html#name-failed-path-validation). When the timer expires, and if there's no other active paths, the endpoint closes the connection.

As complicated as it is, I agree that there's benefit in closing early, and that the design is consistent.

The only remaining question I have is the error code to be used when closing the connection. Should we be using NO_ERROR, or do we need a new error code?

Author: I guess what distinguishes this from other cases is that there is an opportunity to signal an error.

However, in general we have avoided signaling this, because [losing a path doesn't mean losing the connection](https://quicwg.org/base-drafts/draft-ietf-quic-transport.html#section-8.2.4-6).  

I think that this is an error case where NO_ERROR almost makes sense.  Though I wouldn't be opposed to defining a NO_VIABLE_PATH error for this specific case.

Reviewer 5: NO_VIABLE_PATH sounds good to me.

This specific case is not about losing one path. It is about losing a connection amid data transfer. That's going to have negative consequences, and I think it would be great if we could have insights regarding if that actually happens.

Depending on how often we would see this, we might start considering changing minimum MTU requirement to a smaller number, or remove the path validation requirement upon NAT rebinding.

it can associate the peer's response with the corresponding PATH_CHALLENGE.

An endpoint MUST expand datagrams that contain a PATH_CHALLENGE frame to at
least the smallest allowed maximum datagram size of 1200 bytes, unless the
anti-amplification limit for the path does not permit sending a datagram of
this size.  Sending UDP datagrams of this size ensures that the network path
from the endpoint to the peer can be used for QUIC; see {{datagram-size}}.

> If an endpoint is unable to expand the datagram payload to 1200 bytes, no
> padding is necessary.  However, this means that the path MTU will not be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When an endpoint is unable to expand the datagram size to 1200 bytes due to
the anti-amplification limit, the path MTU will not be
```

An endpoint MUST expand datagrams that contain a PATH_RESPONSE frame to at
least the smallest allowed maximum datagram size of 1200 bytes. This verifies
that the path is able to carry datagrams of this size in both directions.
However, an endpoint MUST NOT expand the PATH_RESPONSE if it is constrained
by an anti-amplification limit.  This will only occur if the PATH_CHALLENGE

> is not send in an expanded packet.

Reviewer 5: I like this, because this requirement is in symmetry with that being proposed for PATH_CHALLENGE.

I had [something different](https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/quic/hUck4IjyiT0LNkKPy-gPsPeR_XA/) in my mind, but I prefer what this PR states.

> is not send in an expanded packet.

Reviewer 4: This is very nice :) 
One minor editorial nit though: 
```suggestion
is not sent in an expanded packet.
```
or
```suggestion
was not sent in an expanded packet.
```

An endpoint MUST expand datagrams that contain a PATH_RESPONSE frame to at
least the smallest allowed maximum datagram size of 1200 bytes. This verifies
that the path is able to carry datagrams of this size in both directions.

> However, an endpoint MUST NOT expand the PATH_RESPONSE if it is constrained
> by an anti-amplification limit.  This will only occur if the PATH_CHALLENGE
> was not sent in an expanded packet.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, an endpoint MUST NOT expand the datagram containing the
PATH_RESPONSE if it is constrained by an anti-amplification limit.  This
will only occur if the PATH_CHALLENGE was not sent in an expanded
datagram.
```
The first sentence says you expand the datagram, so let's not confuse the issue by referring to expanded frames or packets.

> if it is constrained by an anti-amplification limit.  This will only occur if
> the PATH_CHALLENGE was not sent in an expanded datagram.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
if the resulting data exceeds the anti-amplification limit.  This is expected
to only occur if the received PATH_CHALLENGE was not sent in an expanded
datagram.
```

it can associate the peer's response with the corresponding PATH_CHALLENGE.

An endpoint MUST expand datagrams that contain a PATH_CHALLENGE frame to at
least the smallest allowed maximum datagram size of 1200 bytes, unless the
anti-amplification limit for the path does not permit sending a datagram of
this size.  Sending UDP datagrams of this size ensures that the network path
from the endpoint to the peer can be used for QUIC; see {{datagram-size}}.

> 

Reviewer 6: I know it is late in the process, but I would much prefer the paragraph to say that "An endpoint SHOULD expand datagrams that contain a PATH_CHALLENGE frame..." The reason is that if we say MUST, picky implementations will account the number of bytes sent and discard un-padded path challenges if they sent 400 bytes of data or more. Such measurements are very hard to get right, so we will end up with interoperability issues.

Reviewer 6: This is specifically an issue for server responses to NAT traversal. A man on the side could trigger a number "fake" NAT traversal, and it makes sense for servers to avoid sending large packets in response to that.

Reviewer 7: In practice, these fake NAT traversals don't seem so concerning because most ports on a NAT are going to be unused and dropped by the NAT itself.  And I believe most Large(ie: Carrier Grade) NATs are symmetric, so even if the port was open, the traffic would be dropped.

Reviewer 6: The problem happens when the attacker is not behind a NAT, say is using IPv6. Suppose the attacker is an evil client, intent on targeting IPv6 address X, or maybe IPv6 prefix X/64. It can set up a connection, then manufacture a series of short packets with faked source addresses and ports -- packets less than 100 bytes including the IP header, each triggering a 1200 byte response. The evil client can set up an arbitrary number of good connections to do that, effectively getting a factor 12 amplification for a large stream of data.

Reviewer 7: I agree that if the IP changes, assuming it is a NAT migration is a bit dangerous, so I only had port in mind.

Author: I don't want to make a change here.  We already [prohibit enforcement of the padding rule](https://quicwg.org/base-drafts/draft-ietf-quic-transport.html#section-14-7).  That's enough.

Reviewer 6: See discussion and proposed fix in issue #4257

Reviewer 6: @martinthomson the padding enforcement rule says "an endpoint MUST NOT close a connection when it receives a datagram that does not meet size constraints; the endpoint MAY however discard such datagrams." The latter behavior, discarding the datagram, is exactly what leads to interop failure when the server does not pad because of amplification concerns, and the client drops because it interprets the clause as "MUST pad".

Author: Happy to add text specific to this instance that prohibits enforcement.

Author: I've added some text that prohibits dropping.  I will note that at the point that you detect this violation, you have likely already started to process the packet, so enforcement of the requirement is a little dangerous.

Reviewer 3: IMO the added text prohibiting dropping resolves this problem

Reviewer 6: The added text solves my issue.

frame received on any network path validates the path on which the
PATH_CHALLENGE was sent.

If the PATH_CHALLENGE frame was sent in a datagram that was not expanded to at
least 1200 bytes, an endpoint can regard the address as valid for the purposes
of sending more than three times the amount of data that has been received.
However, the path MTU is not validated so the endpoint MUST initiate another

> path validation to verify that the path MTU is sufficient.

Reviewer 5: If we are to change the MUST above (see my comment above) to "can," then I think we can get rid of this paragraph.

frame received on any network path validates the path on which the
PATH_CHALLENGE was sent.

> If the PATH_CHALLENGE frame was sent in a datagram that was not expanded to at
> least 1200 bytes, an endpoint can regard the address as valid for the purposes
> of sending more than three times the amount of data that has been received.
> However, the path MTU is not validated so the endpoint MUST initiate another
> path validation to verify that the path MTU is sufficient.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the PATH_CHALLENGE frame that resulted in successful path validation was sent
in a datagram that was not expanded to at least 1200 bytes, the endpoint can
regard the address as valid for the purposes of sending more than three times
the amount of data that has been received. However, the endpoint MUST initiate
another path validation with an expanded datagram to verify that the path
supports required MTU.
```

unusable.  This does not necessarily imply a failure of the connection -
endpoints can continue sending packets over other paths as appropriate.  If no
paths are available, an endpoint can wait for a new path to become available or
close the connection.  An endpoint that has no valid network path to its peer
MAY signal this using the NO_VIABLE_PATH connection error, noting that this is
only possible if the network path exists but does not support the required

> MTU {{datagram-size}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MTU ({{datagram-size}}).
```

victim.

As described in {{migration-response}}, an endpoint is required to validate a
peer's new address to confirm the peer's possession of the new address. Until a
peer's address is deemed valid, an endpoint limits the amount of data it sends
to that address; see {{address-validation}}. In the absence of this limit, an
endpoint risks being used for a denial of service attack against an

> unsuspecting victim.

Reviewer 4: This does introduce some interesting questions around NAT rebinding if the "new address" was only sending very small ACK-only packets, but that should only persist for the single RTT it takes to get the PATH_RESPONSE back. Probably fine to leave the wording here as-is and not call that out, but thought I'd double check.

binding for the server's preferred address.

Servers SHOULD initiate path validation to the client's new address upon
receiving a probe packet from a different address.  Before the client address

> is validated, servers MUST NOT send more data on the path than three times the

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
is validated, servers MUST NOT send more packets on the path than three times the
```

> is validated, servers MUST NOT send more data on the path than three times the
> number of bytes received on the path; see {{address-validation}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is validated, servers MUST limit data sent on the path to three times the
number of bytes received on the path; see {{address-validation}}.
```

binding for the server's preferred address.

> Servers SHOULD initiate path validation to the client's new address upon

Reviewer 7: This entire paragraph doesn't seem very specific to "Interaction of Client Migration and Preferred Address"

I think it'd be better to reference the section and not put these normative statements here, since they are so general.

Author: Agreed.

Reviewer 7: Follow-up Q: Is this SHOULD specific to "Interaction of Client Migration and Preferred Address" or more general?  It seems more general, but I don't have a strong opinion.

validation limits amplification attack targets to addresses for which an
attacker can observe packets.

Prior to address validation, endpoints are limited in what they are able to
send.  Endpoints cannot send data toward an unvalidated address in excess of
three times the data received from that address.

Note:

: The anti-amplification limit only applies when an endpoint responds to packets
  received from an unvalidated address. The anti-amplification limit does not

>   apply to clients when establishing a new connection or when initiating path

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  apply to clients when establishing a new connection or when initiating connection
```

Author: Thanks.  Added manually to avoid line length limit blowout.

validation limits amplification attack targets to addresses for which an
attacker can observe packets.

Prior to address validation, endpoints are limited in what they are able to

> send.  Endpoints cannot send data toward an unvalidated address in excesss of
> three times the data received from that address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
send.  Endpoints cannot send data toward an unvalidated address in excess of
three times the data received from that address.
```

Note:

> : The three times anti-amplification limit only applies when sending in
>   response to packets received from an unvalidated address. The
>   anti-amplification limit does not apply to clients that establish a new
>   connection or when path migration is initiated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: The anti-amplification limit only applies when an endpoint responds to packets
  received from an unvalidated address. The anti-amplification limit does not
  apply to clients when establishing a new connection or when initiating path
  migration.
```
